FALSE

Dear international student,​

​Aalto University Student Union (AYY) in cooperation with the Student Union of the University of Helsinki (HYY) is conducting a survey for the international students of Aalto University and the University of Helsinki on the use of healthcare services and health insurance policies in Finland.

Your input is extremely important for the success of the survey. The results will be used both nationally and on the municipal level to influence different service providers to better take into account the needs of international students and to improve communication channels for international students. The health insurance policy recommended by the Finnish authorities for non-EU/EEA students will be competitively re-tendered by a national agency this year, and it is important that the students’ experiences on the insurances are considered in the competitive tendering process.

​6 x 50e gift cards to a department store, a hoodie and t-shirts from Aalto University Student Union and t-shirts from StudenUnion of the University of Helsinki will be drawn in a lottery between all who participate and submit their contact information. The contact information will not be attached to the answers, but kept separate.

​Filling out the only survey takes about 15 minutes. The survey is open until 7.4.2017. All information is handled confidentially and the results will be reported anonymously. The study is conducted by the Research foundation for studies and education, Otus.

Enter the survey here:

https://my.surveypal.com/health-care-survey-for-international-students

We will be happy to answer all questions concerning the survey via email.

​Thank you for your time!


Asiantuntija | Sakkunnig | Specialist

(toimeentulo, kansainväliset opiskelijat)

(försörjning, utländska studenter)

(Subsistence, International Students)

 
Helsingin yliopiston ylioppilaskunta (HYY)

Studentkåren vid Helsingfors universitet (HUS)

Student Union of the University of Helsinki (HYY)