FALSE

Spring is finally here and so is the first newsletter of the year!

This time the newsletter is a thick info package that enlightens you for example about the developments in the digital services, cleaning of sandy streets, communality ideas of the Generations Block and possibility to sublease apartment for the summer.

Check Frank’s valuable student offers above, too!
Changes to Kela's housing allowance and possibilty for separate tenancy agreements
Starting next autumn students will be covered under the general housing allowance scheme, which means the separate housing supplement for students will be discontinued and students can apply for the general housing allowance starting 1 August 2017. You can use Kela's online customer service to file a claim for housing allowance as early as May 2017.

Kela considers persons living in a friends apartment under joint responsibility tenancy agreement as belonging to the same household and thus they would need to apply for general housing allowance together. The amount of housing benefits is affected by the gross income of the persons making up a household.

At Hoas the former friends apartments are now called roomie apartments and are rented out with separate tenancy agreements. Old joint friends apartment agreements can now be changed into these separate agreements (Note: this does not apply to family agreements). We will send a letter about the agreement change to all tenants in friends apartments.

More info about the benefit changes on Kela’s website.
    
Village community in the urban city
Generations Block in Jätkäsaari is a great example of communality thinking in housing. Hoas building with its 102 student apartments was completed at the end of 2015. The two remaining parts of the block (Setlementtiasunnot apartments and Asuntosäätiö apartments) are now ready, too.

The idea of this unique block is to bring village community to urban environment. Residents can use different common facilities such as laundry, lobby café, lounge and walkway that runs throughout all three buildings on the ground floor. Common spaces are wished to function as an enlargement of one's own private home. In addition, a block coach’s work will be piloted for two years. The block coach helps, supports and encourages residents to come up with and to organise common events and other activities.

Generations Block received ARA’s Square Metres of the Year 2017 Award in January.
Subleasing during summer or student exchange
If you spend your summer out of town or have a study related work experience or student exchange abroad, you can sublease your apartment to another person for that time.

However, remember that you are responsible for the rent and the condition of the apartment for the whole time. Studios and rooms in shared apartments can be sublet for one person and in bigger apartments there can be as many people as there are bedrooms.

It is important that you sign a sublease agreement form and send that to us (housingservices@hoas.fi) one month before your subtenant is moving in.

READ MORE

Cleaning of the sandy spring streets
Spring is coming and as the snow melts streets will soon be left with a layer of sand and stones. At Hoas properties sweeping the sand off the ground will start as soon as snow and minus temperatures are gone. This will be done automatically according to a fixed plan, which means that tenants don’t need to ask for that themselves.

Other faults or shortages at the properties can always be reported easily with the online fault report form.
        
Is any of your friends looking for housing for spring or summer?
We rent out furnished rooms until the end of May and unfurnished apartments from April to August. Anyone who has a temporary job or studies in Helsinki metropolitan area can apply for these apartments.

A good tip for a friend who has a summer job in the Helsinki region!

More info about temporary housing on our website.
HSY’s collection vehicles
If you have unusable electrical devices lying around, you should check out timetables for HSY’s touring collection vehicles.

Vehicles tour around the metropolitan area in April, May and June. You can take domestic hazardous waste, electric and electronic devices and scrap metal to the vehicle free of charge
        
Responsible Summer Job
We are again participating in the Responsible Summer Job campaign. By taking part in the campaign, we commit to the six principles of a good summer job, ensuring a good engagement for both the employee and the employer.

More about the campaign here.
Constant development work in digital services
We are continuously improving our services in order to make them as useful and effortless to use as possible. A particular emphasis is on digital development. This spring there will be changes in online forms and in the tenancy agreement signing process, for example.

In addition to the renewed application form of last autumn, rest of our new online forms will be taken into use this spring, too. New forms are more straightforward to use, but also responsive, which means that they are easy to fill in with a phone.

Starting late spring, tenancy agreements will be signed electronically to fasten the agreement process and to make it easier and more secure. When started, electronical signing applies to all new tenancy agreements and for example those whose old friends apartment agreements are changed into roomie agreements.

There is also constant development work done for the new hoas.fi website and for the Hoas Matchie service. At the moment we are improving website’s navigation and search tool based on the feedback from tenant workshops. As for the Matchie, the user will now receive an automatic email if there is an unread message in the user’s Matchie inbox.

If you have any feedback or development ideas concerning our digital services, share your thoughts by sending an email to kehitys@hoas.fi.
Good results in the customer survey
We made a customer satisfaction survey in November and December 2016. The survey was carried out by Innolink Research Oy. The goal of the survey was to map customer satisfaction as well as to know which things could need improving and developing according to tenants. Thanks for all the 2005 respondents!

According to the survey, several aspects have improved and customer satisfactory has risen compared to the numbers of the previous survey made two years ago. 